Just a couple of years ago Richard Branson quoted "One day, offices will be a thing of the past". What may have seemed vague to some at that time, but this is the actual secenraio today. His prediction is the reality of the present! Now, some still think that they don't need virtual or remote team in their organization just because they work out of the same office space. But, is that really true? We live in a hyper-modern, technology-driven world and in one way or another we all have worked remotely. You have taken a day to work from home, sent an urgent email while you were on your way to work, or had a video conference with collegues across different time zone; so you see we all are remote/virtual workers.

In today's world, as long as you maintain the quality and quantity of the work getting done, it doesn't matter too much where you are doing your work. The concept of "punching the clock" is just so outdated. If you are into any kind business, measuring the productivity based on how many hours the employees have worked is just not enough. In fact, it may affect the business by restraning the most tallented workers because there's a growing percentage of employees/workers who like to spend some time working remotely. 

Starting of the rapid technological advancements there are a couple of factors that are pushing organizations to adapt quickly the way of doing business. The presence of Virtual Teams is the feasible solution for these factors/changes. In fact, data states that virtual teams are actually more engaged, and remote working has the potential to be as successful as working on-site depending on the team in question. 

To answer how virtual teams are becoming the furture of work you need to understand the eminet sense they make for both organizations as well as employees. Let's start with organizations first.

Virtual Teams are the best approach for the organizations looking for expertise within their budget and where the emoployee's lcoation is not a concern. 
Virtual Teams are also an ideal solution for companies that doesn't require an actual, physical office but just need a presence at particluar locations. Such teams not only prevent the challenges of setting infrastructures at locations but also save costs. 
Although virtual teams are with the organizations for just a limited time period but as long as they are with the organization they are dedicated only and only on the company's assignments. Unlike freelancers who are usually juggling multiple projects. 
Virtual Teams comprise of employees from across the globe. Thus bringing a diverse, global perspective to the business. There's more creativity, innovation and growth. 
Lastly, the reliability factor is higher with Virtual Teams as organizations can control and track employee's performance and deliverable's quality.

Those were a couple of points indicating how well virtual teams work for an organization. Now, let's look what are the advanctages for a virtual employee.

Flexibility and empowerment are two major factors for attracting highest tallents and expertise. Flexible working hours and work from home options are often the deciding factors for employees to weather stay or leave the organization. The good thing is that a Virtual Employee enjoys both aspects. 
Mellinials are now the largest workforce segement and they have a strong, almost inbuilt understanding of technology. Therefore, they have more preference towards vitrual work environment. 
Virtual employees are free from the worries of travelling. They can work from any where, at the comfort of their own space, free from disturbance, and at their own pace. 
Finding the right jobs based on their expertise is easy for virtual employees as there are companies ready to hire for such roles. This also gives the employees a greater degree of stability as they are happy with their work. 

We now know that Virtual Teams have huge impact on businesses as well as employees. While organizations still have some distance to go in order to completely transform from physical office to vitrual work environment, many are now understanding to adapt to the changes and form virtual teams as it suits their requirements.            


            
How Virtual Teams Are Becoming the Future of Work
     